CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 1 CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 Approved by the CGIAR Global Leadership Team 5 June 2025 Purpose The purpose of the Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-2030 (“TRA 25-30”) is to set out the technical reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. Prepared
reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. Prepared by; Content developed by the Portfolio Performance Unit in collaboration with a x- CGIAR working group and System Council Strategic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee members. Note to readers: 2024 Annual Technical Reports including the 2022-24 Type 2 Report are
to readers: 2024 Annual Technical Reports including the 2022-24 Type 2 Report are being delivered in Q2 2025 under the existing 22-24 Technical Reporting Arrangement. The CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement fulfills the System -level programmatic reporting requirements set out in the Standard Provisions annexed to the Funding Agreement or Arrangement signed between each
"the Standard Provisions annexed to the Funding Agreement or Arrangement signed between each Funder and the System Organization, including requirements to take into account the risks identified in line with CGIAR’s risk management framework and to assess progress on social inclusion and addressing environmental issues, including implementation of applicable environmental and social standards."
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 2 Contents Executive Summary ............................................................................................................ 3 1. Technical Reporting Arrangement purpose, scope, value proposition, delivery and optimization, ......................................................................................................................... 4 2. Technical Report products .............................................................................................. 7 3. CGIAR Results Framework, MELIA, Indicator Toolkit and data collection protocols ......... 11 4. Targets"
"MELIA, Indicator Toolkit and data collection protocols ......... 11 4. Targets ......................................................................................................................... 13 5. Alignment Principles, Mechanisms and rate of change ................................................... 14 6. Impact Assessment Strategy/ Approach/ Case studies .................................................. 17 7. Projected Benefits and linking investment to results ...................................................... 18 8. Innovation Portfolio Management .................................................................................."
linking investment to results ...................................................... 18 8. Innovation Portfolio Management .................................................................................. 18 9. Adaptive Management “Reflect” and Mid-Point Review .................................................. 20 Annex 1: Draft 2025-30 CGIAR Results Framework (Impact and Portfolio Outcome levels) ... 20 Annex 2: ISDC feedback relating to pooled & non-pooled alignment ................................... 23
2: ISDC feedback relating to pooled & non-pooled alignment ................................... 23 Annex 3: Initial Minimum Data Standard for Outputs and Outcomes ................................... 24 Annex 4: Independent evaluation recommendations and management response actions relevant to the TRA 25-30 .................................................................................................. 25 Annex 5: Relevant materials .............................................................................................. 25
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 3 Executive Summary To provide the basis for strengthened accountability, assurance, learning, and resource mobilization, a new CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement (TRA) is being co -designed for the period 2025-30 with Funder representatives under the auspices of the System Council’s Strategic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee (SIMEC). Key features of the new TRA include: • Integration: Rising to the challenge noted by the ISDC in its feedback on the May 2024 Portfolio narrative, a more integrated approach will be developed to track the performance of each Program and Accelerator, bringing together the outputs, outcomes and i mpacts of the whole portfolio through progressive alignment of reporting on w3/bilaterally funded components with a common framework. • Line of sight: The TRA is designed to meet the needs"
"outcomes and i mpacts of the whole portfolio through progressive alignment of reporting on w3/bilaterally funded components with a common framework. • Line of sight: The TRA is designed to meet the needs of diverse funders, ensuring transparency and accountability by linking investment to results, both for pooled and non-pooled funds. • Impact focus: Research results will be better linked to CGIAR’s 2030 targets using enhanced impact area indicators. Impact assessments will be integrated into Program/Accelerator design. The use of geographically-bounded targets will be explored for priority locations. A robust approach to project cross-Portfolio benefits by Impact Area for different funding scenarios will be developed; these projections will be used to set the targets and milestones against which progress will be reported. • Simplified reporting: Overly complex requirements will be avoided, aiming to"
"funding scenarios will be developed; these projections will be used to set the targets and milestones against which progress will be reported. • Simplified reporting: Overly complex requirements will be avoided, aiming to reduce the reporting burden on Centers. Technical Report products include the following: • A Results Dashboard including AI functionalities will be updated several times a year (e.g. quarterly) to offer funders and partners closer to real-time data. • Annual Program/Accelerator Technical Reports will be complemented by an Annual Portfolio Report which will convey progress by Impact Area, geographic and thematic priorities and include information on CGIAR’s internal practice change and learning. • Portfolio outcomes and impacts will be consolidated in a specific report every 3 years. Evidence of CGIAR contributions to impact will be synthesized and regularly updated through an"
"practice change and learning. • Portfolio outcomes and impacts will be consolidated in a specific report every 3 years. Evidence of CGIAR contributions to impact will be synthesized and regularly updated through an online “impact compendium”. • A 2022-30 report is also envisaged, to provide a macro-level view of CGIAR’s role in food, land and water System Transformation during the period covered by the CGIAR’s 2030 Strategy. In addition to annual reports and associated ‘pause and reflect’ processes at the Program and Accelerator levels, a robust mid -term review in the first half of 2028 will take stock of Portfolio - level performance, results, and lessons learned to inform more significant adaptive management actions in view of CGIAR’s 2030 targets. The mid -term review will draw on relevant evaluative evidence from IAES-commissioned independent"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 4 1. Technical Reporting Arrangement purpose, scope, value proposition, delivery and optimization, Purpose The purpose of th e Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025 -2030 (“TRA 25-30”) is to set out the technical reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. The TRA 25-30: • Provides the parameters that e nable the Centers, the CGIAR System Partners and the System Organization to fulfil their technical reporting obligations under the funding agreements that apply to the use of Window 1 and Window 2 funds from the CGIAR Trust Fund (“Pooled Funding”). These parameters also allow the Integrated Partnership Board to fulfil its responsibility under the CGIAR System Charter to report on programmatic performance of CGIAR Research on an annual basis. • Provides, through the"
"These parameters also allow the Integrated Partnership Board to fulfil its responsibility under the CGIAR System Charter to report on programmatic performance of CGIAR Research on an annual basis. • Provides, through the establishment of common technical reporting principles, enabling tools and mechanisms, progressive alignment and synergy between the technical reporting requirements that apply to components of the CGIAR Portfolio that are funded by Pooled Funding and those that apply to the components that are funded by other sources of funds (“Non-Pooled Funding”). • Sets transparency, performance tracking, and accountability expectations between CGIAR System Funders and CGIAR including Centres, • Informs decision making at different levels, underpins research management, operationalizes the Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF), and guides portfolio -level MELIA and the design of the next Performance and Results management"
"• Informs decision making at different levels, underpins research management, operationalizes the Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF), and guides portfolio -level MELIA and the design of the next Performance and Results management System (PRMS). The current Technical Reporting Arrangement that applies to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2022-24 (“TRA 22-24”) was co-developed by CGIAR and System Council/Strategic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee (SIMEC) members in 2022. A new TRA is needed to match 2025-30 portfolio parameters, notably the alignment of pooled and non-pooled funding sources, and to apply lessons learnt from 2022-24. Scope The TRA 25-30 provides the operational and enabling basis to plan, monitor, learn and report on the 25-30 Portfolio. It is designed to progressively enable Programs and Accelerators, Centers and their research teams to report on the"
"the operational and enabling basis to plan, monitor, learn and report on the 25-30 Portfolio. It is designed to progressively enable Programs and Accelerators, Centers and their research teams to report on the pooled, bilaterally and W3-funded components of the 2025- 30 portfolio in an integrated and aligned way, without increasing reporting burdens of Centers and Scientists. Going forward, the CGIAR Integrated Partnership will work towards progressively greater alignment of W3/bilateral projects and programs with the 2030 outcomes and theories of change of the Programs and Accelerators. Centers will provide key agreed information on their W3/bilaterally funded projects and programs to enable Program/Accelerator leaderships to explore ways to achieve alignment based on, inter alia, complementarity of results as well as actual or potential thematic, geographic, and partnership overlaps. Reporting on and attribution"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 5 of results across different sources of funding will be set out as part of this Technical Reporting Arrangement. The Programs and Accelerators aim to provide frameworks for greater complementarity and synergy across different sources and types of funding (CGIAR Trust Fund Windows 1 -2, Window 3 and bilateral funding), while enhancing transparency and accountability. A n updated results"
"1 -2, Window 3 and bilateral funding), while enhancing transparency and accountability. A n updated results framework, underpinned by a new Technical Reporting Arrangement, will provide robust, continuous performance and results reporting across all funding sources, as well as adaptive management of the Portfolio. 1 Value Proposition The TRA 25-30: - Creates value by delivering an integrated approach that tracks the performance of each Program and"
"- Creates value by delivering an integrated approach that tracks the performance of each Program and Accelerator, - Brings together the inputs (including costs), outputs, outcomes and impacts of the total portfolio to allow for easier and more robust Return on Investment (ROI) calculations. - Avoids creating a significant additional and duplicative layer of complex reporting requirements for W3/ bilaterally funded work. - Informs decision making"
"and duplicative layer of complex reporting requirements for W3/ bilaterally funded work. - Informs decision making through providing ready access to demand-driven quality raw and curated data products. Delivery The TRA 25 -30 will be delivered in line with Management arrangements for CGIAR’s 2025 —30 science and innovation Portfolio. Specific roles and responsibilities will be defined in 2025. 1 CGIAR Portfolio Narrative, 1 November 2024"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 6 Portfolio Management Arrangements Optimization This TRA 25-30 builds on lessons learnt from the TRA 22-24 and the CRP model. These include 1. Increasing use of quality, harmonized Theories of Change (ToC), impact pathway s, results and indicators, 2. Better linking ToC, Plan of Results and Budget (PoRB) and Technical Reporting , 3. Better linking impacts to outcomes and outputs , 4. Providing line of sight between investment and results, 5. Reducing transaction costs for data collection, quality assurance and reporting, and 6."
"4. Providing line of sight between investment and results, 5. Reducing transaction costs for data collection, quality assurance and reporting, and 6. Increasing user ability to access quality raw and curated data products . Aligned with the Portfolio Management Arrangements, CGIAR will adapt the TRA 25-30 during implementation to ensure that solutions are right -sized, deliver inten ded value, and respond to existing and emergent needs. The Technical Reporting Arrangement will be implemented through a phased approach, with the first phase including: • Deliver 2025 Program and Accelerator Technical Reports"
"Reporting Arrangement will be implemented through a phased approach, with the first phase including: • Deliver 2025 Program and Accelerator Technical Reports by April 2026. • Deliver 2025 Portfolio Narrative by June 2026. • Integrate the top 80% w3/bilateral projects (by Center portfolio value) into Program/Accelerator Theory of Change, MELIA Planning, Plan of Results and Budget at the High Level Output level (HLO), and Technical Reporting. • Apply the initial Minimum Data Standard proposed by Center MEL Focal Points and approved by the GST for integrating the top 80% by"
"the initial Minimum Data Standard proposed by Center MEL Focal Points and approved by the GST for integrating the top 80% by Center portfolio value 2025 w3/bilateral results into 2025 Program, Accelerator and Portfolio Technical Reports. • Additionally, provide the capability for optional submission of W3/bilateral Technical Reports into 2025 Program, Accelerator and Portfolio Technical Reports to simplify reporting requirements and consolidate information. Where Technical Reports are shared for integration, Centers will have a role in reviewing and validating how their information is represented in aggregate Program/Accelerator and Portfolio reporting."
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 7 • Review substantive w3/bilateral mapping during the Pause & Reflect process and provide recommendations to the GST for approval. Simplified and meaningful KPIs will be established to assess the TRA value proposition during 2025. An optimization process , aligned with the Portfolio Management Arrangements and inclusive of stakeholder views and independent recommendations, will be established to review TRA value and adapt as required against established KPIs. The optimization process, and changes made to the TRA and its attendant digital solutions and Technical Report products during delivery will be documented and integrated into Technical Reporting. 2. Technical Report products Technical Report products will progressively integrate pooled and bilaterally and W3 -funded project and program information. Technical Report products will provide: 1. Assurance on delivery against portfolio-wide indicator targets"
"2. Technical Report products Technical Report products will progressively integrate pooled and bilaterally and W3 -funded project and program information. Technical Report products will provide: 1. Assurance on delivery against portfolio-wide indicator targets and insight on specific topics driven by quality assured evidence, 2. Demand-driven support to decision making at different levels, 3. Curated content for use in communications, advocacy and resource mobilization. 4. Learnings and evidence for fact based adaptive management decisions at science program, accelerator, and center levels. 5. Line of sight between investment and results. The main changes that will be made to existing 22-24 Technical Products include: • Streamline reporting (less products, more integration, lower transaction costs). • Stronger impact-focus: results to be clearly linked and packaged under impacts, outcomes and associated agreed indicator targets • Better linkage between annual Program"
"Streamline reporting (less products, more integration, lower transaction costs). • Stronger impact-focus: results to be clearly linked and packaged under impacts, outcomes and associated agreed indicator targets • Better linkage between annual Program and Accelerator Theory of Change , Plan of Results and Budget, and Technical Reporting. Currently these three components are not adequately linked, making it challenging to demonstrate progress against TOCs, or define costs for specific results and subsequent ROI. • Outcome and Impact content from across the Portfolio will be consolidated and delivered through triennial reports, however individual studies will be released as they become available to reduce the wait time for access to outcome and impact-related information. The primary target audiences for Technical Reporting are Funders and CGIAR staff at Integrated Partnership, Portfolio, and Program/Accelerator Levels. The secondary target audience is"
"wait time for access to outcome and impact-related information. The primary target audiences for Technical Reporting are Funders and CGIAR staff at Integrated Partnership, Portfolio, and Program/Accelerator Levels. The secondary target audience is Partners. Relevant content from Technical Report products will be integrated into CGIAR’s corporate reporting. Annual Technical Reporting will cover individual Program and Accelerator progress towards their respective end of delivery outcomes, as well as provide an overall Portfolio view of aggregate contribution to thematic and geographic targets. The shift to a 6-year Business Cycle will allow CGIAR to address the challenges of outcome and impact reporting in a more holistic manner, looking across individual projects and Business Cycles, including Initiatives and CRPs. This will result in a more complete reporting of CGIAR outcomes and impacts. Changes to the way CGIAR"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 8 operates regarding performance and results management will be integrated into the Annual Portfolio Report. A Results Dashboard will provide access to quality assured raw and curated evidence used for reporting . In addition to using information sourced through the Performance and Results Management System, CGIAR will invest in tools to increase the ability to draw results from other authoritative internal and external databases. The Results Dashboard will provide greater access to evidence of CGIAR’s contribution to"
results from other authoritative internal and external databases. The Results Dashboard will provide greater access to evidence of CGIAR’s contribution to impact based on quality-assured data. Triennial reports covering the periods 25-27 and 28-30 will consolidate Portfolio -level contribution to Impact targets. A Thematic Impact report will compile results delivered against the CGIAR Research and Innovation Strategy for the full period 2022-30. Technical Report product Content overview – All content will progressively integrate pooled and non-pooled content Periodicity Annual Program/ Accelerator Report - Annual
"Report product Content overview – All content will progressively integrate pooled and non-pooled content Periodicity Annual Program/ Accelerator Report - Annual per-Program/ Accelerator progress towards end of delivery outcomes Annual Annual Portfolio Report - Aggregated portfolio contribution to thematic and geographic objectives. - Internal practice change aspects including status of Management Response Action implementation. Annual Results Dashboard - Quality assured data available raw, and in curated programmatic, thematic and geographic reports. - Will include user-driven AI features such as natural language questions & answers"
"and in curated programmatic, thematic and geographic reports. - Will include user-driven AI features such as natural language questions & answers with verifiable results. Sub-annual e.g. quarterly updates Triennial Portfolio Outcome and Impact Report - Consolidated Triennial contribution to Portfolio Outcomes and Impact targets covering the periods 2025-27 and 2027-30. Triennial (2028 & 2031) Thematic impact 2022-30 Report - Macro level view of CGIAR’s role in Food, Land and Water System Transformation covering the period 2022-30. Once, in 2031 The Technical Reporting product delivery"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 9 Annual Program/Accelerator Technical Reports Annual Program/Accelerator Report s will be short ( approximately 20-30 pages), concise, and targeted. They will be released in Q2 of the following year (for example, the 2025 Annual Program and Accelerator Technical Reports will be released in Q2 2026). They will provide assurance on annual Program/Accelerator delivery against Plan of Results and Budget and cumulative progress on Theory of Change . An annual Learning and Optimization process will be used to refine the reporting approach and product. Building on the success of the Initiative/Impact Area Platform Annual Technical Reports, the following content areas will be included: Section # Section Title Content overview 1 Fact Sheet Key Program/Accelerator parameters"
"on the success of the Initiative/Impact Area Platform Annual Technical Reports, the following content areas will be included: Section # Section Title Content overview 1 Fact Sheet Key Program/Accelerator parameters including budget, target geographies, Centers involved, details of aligned W3 & bilateral projects, funding allocated to Partners. 2 Executive summary A summary of the Technical Report highlighting key achievements. 3 Annual Progress An overview of annual Program/Accelerator delivery against Plan of Results and Budget, and cumulative progress on Theory of Change. 4 Area of Work details Details relevant to Area of Work level annual delivery and progress on Theory of Change. 5 Costs, Results, and Intellectual Property summary Costs, results and Intellectual Property delivered in the context of Theory of Change"
"Work level annual delivery and progress on Theory of Change. 5 Costs, Results, and Intellectual Property summary Costs, results and Intellectual Property delivered in the context of Theory of Change progress. 6 Partnerships Funding allocated to partners and their role in delivering results and Theory of Change progress. 7 Portfolio linkages Results and Theory of Change progress delivered in coordination with other Portfolio components. 8 Adaptive Management Details of key changes made to Program/Accelerator delivery and the rationale for those changes, including failures. 9 Key Result Story A distribution-ready package highlighting a noteworthy result delivered in the past year. Annual Portfolio Narrative The Annual Portfolio Narrative provides assurance on Portfolio coherence, results including delivery against Portfolio outcome-level geographic/thematic targets, partnerships, country"
"a noteworthy result delivered in the past year. Annual Portfolio Narrative The Annual Portfolio Narrative provides assurance on Portfolio coherence, results including delivery against Portfolio outcome-level geographic/thematic targets, partnerships, country and regional engagement, and synergies among the Portfolio’s constituent parts. It will be released in the Q2 of the following year (for example, the 2025 Portfolio Narrative will be released in Q2 2026). Its format and content will be developed in 2025. Triennial Portfolio Outcome and Impact Report The Triennial Portfolio Out comes and Impacts Report provides assurance on Portfolio-level contribution to Portfolio Impact targets covering the periods 2025-27 and 2028-30. The 2025-27 Report will be released in Q2 2028. Its format and content will be developed in the period 2025"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 10 Thematic Impact 2022-30 Report The Thematic Impact 2022 -30 Report provides a m acro level view of CGIAR’s role in Food, Land and Water System Transformation covering the period 2022 -30. It will be released in 2031. Its format and content will be developed during the period 2025-30. Results Dashboard • The Results Dashboard will be enhanced to better present curated information a gainst Impact Area targets, geographies and key topics. • Headline impacts and outcomes will be more clearly communicated in the Dashboard. • Using AI, users will be able to easily query the results data and underlying sources of evidence data using"
"will be more clearly communicated in the Dashboard. • Using AI, users will be able to easily query the results data and underlying sources of evidence data using natural language, and answers to user questions will be verifiable. • We will expand the use of semantic search and topic modeling for enhanced user experience: By leveraging AI technologies (such as through tools like SNAP) , users will interact with the data more intuitively and meaningfully. They will be able to explore results based on the actual themes and patterns emerging from the data itself. This approach will be integrated into the 2024 Portfolio Narrative as a learning experience. o Semantic Search: Users"
"the actual themes and patterns emerging from the data itself. This approach will be integrated into the 2024 Portfolio Narrative as a learning experience. o Semantic Search: Users will be able to search for information not just by keywords, but by the meaning behind those keywords. This allows for more relevant results, as the system understands the context of user queries and brings back results that are semantically similar, even if different words are used. o Clustering Results by Themes: Instead of manually sifting through large amounts of data, Topic Modelling will group similar results together based on their underlying themes. This will make it easier for users to see connections, trends,"
"through large amounts of data, Topic Modelling will group similar results together based on their underlying themes. This will make it easier for users to see connections, trends, and thematic patterns across different projects or reports, without needing prior knowledge of specific categories. o High-Level Insights: Users will get a clearer, more accurate high-level breakdown of results. Results will be clustered based on actual content rather than predefined categories, making the insights more relevant to real-world outcomes. o Efficiency: For users, this means faster and more insightful answers to complex questions tailored to user needs. Next level Business Intelligence value is delivered through solutions like SNAP - a functional prototype Enterprise Content"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 11 Quality Assurance Recognizing the need to adapt our existing Quality Assurance process to increase its quality, increase the speed and quantity of results able to be assessed, and save submitter and assessor time and effort, Quality Assurance will increasingly draw on AI support to cross-check the quality of the reported results. An initial trial integrating AI support to the 2024 Technical Report Quality Assurance process will inform future anticipated AI support expansion to QA and u pstream Technical Reporting. We will progressively add curated datasets (such as Center-level databases) into the QA process to remove to the extent possible the need for double reporting. Existing experience"
"Reporting. We will progressively add curated datasets (such as Center-level databases) into the QA process to remove to the extent possible the need for double reporting. Existing experience gained through automated PRMS solutions (e.g. screening knowledge products against FAIR criteria) will be leveraged. 3. CGIAR Results Framework, MELIA, Indicator Toolkit and data collection protocols CGIAR Results Framework The CGIAR Results Framework will be used by Programs and Accelerators as the basis of their TOC design, MELIA and Technical Reporting. It will provide the basis for geographic portfolio-level outcome, and portfolio level contribution to Impact Area targets reporting. The foundations of the current Results Framework (2022-24) remain: • Impact Areas linked to Sustainable Development Goals"
"portfolio-level outcome, and portfolio level contribution to Impact Area targets reporting. The foundations of the current Results Framework (2022-24) remain: • Impact Areas linked to Sustainable Development Goals • Impact, outcome, and output result levels • Result types/categories o Outcome: Innovation use, Policy change, Other. o Output: Innovation development, Capacity sharing, Knowledge products, Other • A small number of Standard Indicators The updated CGIAR Results Framework in Annex 1 will be finalized in Q1-2 2025. The m ain updates included in the 2025-30 Results Framework include: • Revised Impact Area indicators Shortcomings with the Impact Area indicators in the 2022-24 Results Framework have been identified, including absence of some important indicators for CGIAR (e.g."
"• Revised Impact Area indicators Shortcomings with the Impact Area indicators in the 2022-24 Results Framework have been identified, including absence of some important indicators for CGIAR (e.g. productivity), ambiguous terms (benefitting), and challenges in measurement (people assisted to exit poverty). A study was commissioned in 2023 to review the Result Framework indicators and started a process to collect inputs towards identifying and operationalizing impact level indicators. Revised impact level indicators are now included in the updated CGIAR Results Framework. • Science Group Outcomes converted into Portfolio Outcomes Given the change in organizational structure, current Science Group outcomes have been converted into Portfolio Outcomes. The Science Group Outcomes had emphas ized ‘next user’"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 12 outcomes and have been updated to include a broader set of outcomes involving end users such as farmers and consumers. • A partner engagement/partnership building result category added Many reported results in the ‘other ’ output and outcome categories during the period 2022 -23 were related to development of partnerships and engagement, including events such as workshops and meetings. These seemed mostly aligned with an activity rather than an output or outcome. In fact, engagement often connects outputs to planned outcomes. Information about this important bridging role will be captured in a new category. • 'Other' result categories to be better defined 2022-24 results reported in the ‘Other’ output and outcome categories are by definition a mixed bag, however do point to the need"
"a new category. • 'Other' result categories to be better defined 2022-24 results reported in the ‘Other’ output and outcome categories are by definition a mixed bag, however do point to the need for a specific new category on partner engagement/ partnership building. Improved guidance on the use of the ‘Other’ categories has been available since mid-2024 and we will continue to improve guidance and support to results submitters. • Continuation and optimization of existing Genebank data integration Existing data flow from the Genebanks’ Online Reporting Tool (ORT), powering the CGIAR Results Dashboard Genebanks section will continue. Optimization of those data flows will form part of ongoing engagement with the Genebanks. • Streamline results reporting requirements The reporting burden will be minimized by a) critically assessing each data field against requirements, b)"
"those data flows will form part of ongoing engagement with the Genebanks. • Streamline results reporting requirements The reporting burden will be minimized by a) critically assessing each data field against requirements, b) where a data field is required, AI augmented solutions will be among the support provided to results submitters. MELIA: Program and Accelerator MELIA plans wil l be informed by the Evaluability Assessment Framework, and will ad here to standards such as quality theories of change, SMART indicators, baselines where relevant, and the development and use of a monitoring plan. Guidance and support to Programs and Accelerators will be provided through the inception phase to ensure standardization, coherence and quality. Indicator rationalization and toolkit: Recognizing that Portfolio components including w3 and bilateral projects will continue to have specific indicator requirements,"
"will be provided through the inception phase to ensure standardization, coherence and quality. Indicator rationalization and toolkit: Recognizing that Portfolio components including w3 and bilateral projects will continue to have specific indicator requirements, we will grow the (re-)use of a core set of quality CGIAR indicators, data collection tools, protocols, and collected data aligned with the CGIAR Results Framework and specific project indicators . Indicators will be aligned to output, outcome and impact result levels for use in Monitoring, Evaluation, Learning, Impact Assessment and Foresight (MELIA -F) processes, studies and Technical Report products. These standard indicators, data collection tools, protocols, and collected data will be made available through an indicator toolkit. They will provide the needed ingredients that W3 and bilateral project development and delivery teams can integrate into proposals, budgets and"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 13 operational plans. They will underpin geography and impact pathway -specific outcome and impact assessments at different levels. They will provide more consistent information for future evaluations and other studies. • There are in the order of 10,000 indicators in use across CGIAR’s 900+ active projects with limited consistency among them. Most indicators (around 80%) map well to existing CGIAR Results Framework categories but are defined and measured in different ways, meaning that effective transfer of data and learning between extant and successive generations of Portfolio components is suboptimal. The resulting high rate of single use results data in the CGIAR hampers effective delivery and learning at all levels. If standard indicators, data collection tools, protocols, and collected data are integrated into new w3 and"
"rate of single use results data in the CGIAR hampers effective delivery and learning at all levels. If standard indicators, data collection tools, protocols, and collected data are integrated into new w3 and bilateral project design, budgeting and delivery, the number of distinct indicators in use across CGIAR should fall over time. Over time, indicators used and data collected in Program/Accelerator and project level monitoring and reporting and Impact Assessments will progressively align. The rate of single use data in the CGIAR will drop, and there will be increased opportunities for enhanced delivery and learning. Specific new indicators that may be developed and made available for use include those underpinning CGIAR’s engagement framework, notably: • Intensity of Partnerships: The depth and quality of interactions, collaboration frequency, and the level of resource-sharing between"
"may be developed and made available for use include those underpinning CGIAR’s engagement framework, notably: • Intensity of Partnerships: The depth and quality of interactions, collaboration frequency, and the level of resource-sharing between partners will be assessed to determine the true value of partnership. • Due diligence : Criteria will be developed to ensure that partnerships are formed with entities that enhance CGIAR’s standing and effectiveness. Additionally, to respond to the System Council Intellectual Property Group’s request to streamline Intellectual Asset/Intellectual Property Rights reporting and integrate it with CGIAR Technical Reporting, specific data and collection protocols will be developed and made available for use through common tools such as the Performance and Results Management System. 4. Targets The target-setting and reporting process will consist of three key levels: Program-level outputs and outcomes,"
"and made available for use through common tools such as the Performance and Results Management System. 4. Targets The target-setting and reporting process will consist of three key levels: Program-level outputs and outcomes, Portfolio-level geographic and thematic outcomes, and Portfolio-level impact area contributions , with specific considerations for baselines depending on the level and type of target. CGIAR’s rich legacy of outputs and contributions to outcomes and impact will be incorporated into both the target setting and reporting processes – we will not adopt a blank slate approach. 1. Program/Accelerator-Level Output and Outcome Targets: Each Program/Accelerator will set and then report annually its progress against output and outcome-level targets. A process will be established to ensure Program and Accelerator target quality and coherence. The Annual Program/Accelerator Reports will provide assurance on delivery"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 14 2. Portfolio-Level Outcome Targets (Geographic & Thematic Level Reporting): Portfolio- level Outcome targets will be developed for specific geographies and impact pathways. The Annual Portfolio Narrative will incorporate reporting on these geographic and thematic targets. 3. Portfolio-Level Impact Area Targets: We will design studies that explore the actualized or anticipated impacts of CGIAR Portfolio contributions against CGIAR Impact Area targets for a given geography , impact pathway, timespan and spend (see section on Impact Case Studies) . We will develop an agreed approach to report annually against these Impact Area targets and overall evidence will be included in the Triennial Portfolio Outcome and Impact Report. 5."
"will develop an agreed approach to report annually against these Impact Area targets and overall evidence will be included in the Triennial Portfolio Outcome and Impact Report. 5. Alignment Principles , Mechanisms and rate of change Principles and Mechanisms Given that CGIAR’s 900+ active w3 and bilateral projects do not speak a common results language, that adoption of standard indicators, data collection tools and protocols in new w3 and bilateral projects will take time, and that full alignment across all Portfolio components is not an achievable or perhaps even desirable objective, aligning pooled and bilateral funding to provide a “whole -of-CGIAR” integrated science offer and contribute to shared goals and delivery of impact2 requires"
"or perhaps even desirable objective, aligning pooled and bilateral funding to provide a “whole -of-CGIAR” integrated science offer and contribute to shared goals and delivery of impact2 requires alignment principles and mechanisms. These principles and mechanisms were defined by the Global Leadership Team -sponsored Alignment Working Group to describe how CGIAR will progressively bring bilaterally and W3 - funded projects and programs into alignment and synergy as part of Programs and Accelerators, and how CGIAR will report on them. 1. Key results from W3/bilateral projects will be mapped to the respective Program/ Accelerator Theory of Change, supporting thematic alignment & line of sight between investment and results. 2. A Minimum Data Standard3 will be"
"be mapped to the respective Program/ Accelerator Theory of Change, supporting thematic alignment & line of sight between investment and results. 2. A Minimum Data Standard3 will be established and adhered to by bilateral & W3 projects mapped to Programs and Accelerators. It will be sufficient to describe at a basic level: a. THE IMPACT the project seeks to contribute to (Impact Area/SDGs), b. WHAT specific results the project is delivering/contributing to, c. WHO are the results are being generated with (partnerships), d. WHERE the results are being generated or benefits accruing, 2 See Annex 2 ISDC comments on this topic. 3 See Annex 3 Initial Minimum Data Standard for outputs and outcomes"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 15 e. HOW MUCH those results have cost. 3. Programs and Accelerators will monitor and report against the common CGIAR Results Framework, using a standard approach in alignment with the Technical Reporting Arrangement (2025-30). 4. W3/bilateral projects will continue to monitor and report against their respective Funder- specific frameworks, and these reports and underlying data will be progressively integrated into overall Program/ Accelerator Technical Reports. Confidentiality requirements will be respected - where a funder and a Center do not want their Technical Reporting to be integrated into Portfolio level reporting , these reports will be excluded. Where Technical Reports are shared for integration, Centers will have a role in r eviewing and validating how their information is represented in aggregate Program/Accelerator and Portfolio reporting. 5. A set of Impact Studies responding to"
"Reports are shared for integration, Centers will have a role in r eviewing and validating how their information is represented in aggregate Program/Accelerator and Portfolio reporting. 5. A set of Impact Studies responding to the CGIAR Results Framework and key strategic questions from Funders/Partners/Global Leadership will be integrated into the design and delivery of the Programs & Accelerators; W3/bilaterals may contribute to these. 6. Funders and Centers will be able to adopt more/fully aligned monitoring and reporting approaches for their w3 and bilateral projects during development. It will also be possible to increase alignment during the implementation of a w3/bilateral project through e.g. the contribution to Impact Case Studies. 7. Common CGIAR best of class indicators, data collection protocols, tools, and systems will be promoted for use in W3/bilateral project design. The CGIAR Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning Community of"
"to Impact Case Studies. 7. Common CGIAR best of class indicators, data collection protocols, tools, and systems will be promoted for use in W3/bilateral project design. The CGIAR Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning Community of Practice ( MELCOP) will play a key role in socializing and optimizing these. Theory of Change integration Theory or Change existence and use var ies across the w3/bilateral portfolio. Program and Accelerator Theor ies of Change have been designed to be inclusive of major w3/bilateral projects, however every year new w3/bilateral projects enter the pipeline . As new w3/bilateral projects come online, they will progressively be aligned with Program/Accelerator TOCs. An automated workflow is being developed to provide seamless project-Program mapping and results alignment. This mechanism will ensure that Centers and Programs/Accelerators are able to align the most important and relevant w3/bilateral projects and their"
"automated workflow is being developed to provide seamless project-Program mapping and results alignment. This mechanism will ensure that Centers and Programs/Accelerators are able to align the most important and relevant w3/bilateral projects and their results within the Program/Accelerator portfolio. The integration process will primarily involve the w3/bilateral project outcome level as this is considered a reasonable investment of time requiring consultation and time allocated for reporting. The outcome level will focus primarily on who is expected t o change behaviour on what, why and where (e.g. adoption, policy change). In doing so the programs can assess and optimize synergies of pooled investment in activities needed to support this change in given geographies and sectors. The w3/bilateral projects output level will instead focus on innovations capturing those developed and in need of time to reach intended users for adoption."
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 16 In doing so the line of sight will primarily focus on the outputs produced with pooled resources (sphere of control) while the outcomes are co -produced and do not require differentiation by source of funding. The rate of change Because Technical Report products will progressively integrate bilateral and W3 information, we expect that they will contain differing levels and types of W3 and bilateral project technical content (e.g. results data and narrative) and that this will evolve over time. There are likely to be different levels of bilateral and W3 technical information:"
"(e.g. results data and narrative) and that this will evolve over time. There are likely to be different levels of bilateral and W3 technical information: • Within a specific Product type: Each Annual Program/Accelerator Report will contain a unique blend of w3/bilateral technical content, depending on the W3/bilateral projects that have been mapped, and the type, scope and quality of w3/bilateral technical content made available for integration into the Program/Accelerator Report. Coincidence of Technical Reporting timeframes for a given Program/Accelerator’s constituent w3/bilateral projects will also inform availability of technical content. • Across Product types: Because w3/bilateral technical content will be"
"timeframes for a given Program/Accelerator’s constituent w3/bilateral projects will also inform availability of technical content. • Across Product types: Because w3/bilateral technical content will be available at different times of the year according to specific w3/bilateral Funder requirements, it is likely that not all w3/bilateral technical content will be available for integration into the Annual Program/Accelerator/ Portfolio Narrative Reports in Q1-Q2. Instead, the Results Dashboard will be updated at frequent (e.g. quarterly) intervals as new information is made available for integration. • Across reporting years and Business Cycles: While blending pooled and non -pooled results and narratives was a staple"
"information is made available for integration. • Across reporting years and Business Cycles: While blending pooled and non -pooled results and narratives was a staple of the CRP -era and lessons from that time are being integrated into this TRA25-30, the 2025-30 Portfolio will need to earn its place as a benchmark for integrated technical reporting. We are expecting growth over successive years in both the amount and quality of w3 and bilateral project technical content integration, and the overall coherence with the pooled content within Technical Report products. Appropriate rate of change targets will be developed in line with"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 17 The amount of quality information sourced from different funding sources, and the coherence between those different information sources will increase over time (specific metrics and targets to be developed) 6. Impact Assessment Strategy/ Approach/ Case studies CGIAR will develop a 2025 -30 Impact Assessment Plan and integrate its design, budgeting and delivery into the 25-30 Portfolio. The bottom-up approach to impact assessment that has been used within CGIAR for the past decades has not produced sufficient quantity or quality of studies to prov ide evidence against CGIAR impact indicators. SPIA fills in some of this gap, but even their new undertaking of country studies will likely not be able to contribute to most of the indicators"
"against CGIAR impact indicators. SPIA fills in some of this gap, but even their new undertaking of country studies will likely not be able to contribute to most of the indicators or at a regular frequency. Individual projects and Initiatives have taken on board the need to evidence short to medium term outcomes and have reported hundreds of such cases. But there is a significant drop off in the number of studies of impacts, primarily because of the time lag to realiz ation of impacts . The time lag means that impacts are mainly the result of older research and not the new projects/Initiatives and therefore of le ss interest to current projects from an accountability perspective. If CGIAR is to rectify this long-standing"
"mainly the result of older research and not the new projects/Initiatives and therefore of le ss interest to current projects from an accountability perspective. If CGIAR is to rectify this long-standing problem, it requires a system level impact assessment strategy where the different pieces of the puzzle can fit together. CGIAR delivery of quality Impact Case studies that respond to funder, stakeholder and Management needs/Questions will be strengthened: • Identify 10-15 key impact-related questions that CGIAR needs to be able to answer during the period 2025 -30, aligned to specific geographies, impact pathways, and Impact Area indicators. • Once priority Questions identified, engage SPIA & CGIAR Impact Assessment specialists to refine & design delivery approach, • Contribution from across all funding streams, • Adapt"
"and Impact Area indicators. • Once priority Questions identified, engage SPIA & CGIAR Impact Assessment specialists to refine & design delivery approach, • Contribution from across all funding streams, • Adapt existing Program/Accelerator/w3 & bilateral project data collection approach to strengthen linkage between MEL and IA, based on Impact Case study learnings. • Report Impact Case findings as they become available, and compile in Triennial Portfolio Outcome and Impact reports. Additionally, an Impact Compendium will provide stakeholders with ready access to relevant CGIAR impact-related studies and evidence dating back to 2017. Updated annually, users will be able to explore the impact data and syntheses from different perspectives including Impact Area, geography, type of impact study. The Impact compendium will be launched in Q2 2025."
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 18 7. Projected Benefits and linking investment to results Projected Benefits The ambition is to develop a tunable Projected Benefits approach over the 25-27 Business Cycle to answer the question “what will $ [x] contribution to CGIAR in [location] on [topic] provide in terms of benefits [IA indicator s/SDG target s/$] by [date]”? The approach will be tunable for investment, location, research topic, type of benefit, and timeframe. Reporting on progress annually will be another key area of work in this area. Recognizing that this is quite ambitious , we will approach this as a learning journey with stakeholders, building on existing expertise, studies and approaches to land on an approach that is meaningful and cost-effective. Linking $ to results"
"we will approach this as a learning journey with stakeholders, building on existing expertise, studies and approaches to land on an approach that is meaningful and cost-effective. Linking $ to results CGIAR aims to establish a fit for purpose solution that provides intelligence on how financial inputs connect to different types of outputs, outcomes and impacts across CGIAR's portfolio. This is crucial for improving transparency and accountability, as well as for resource prioritization and portfolio man agement. The primary objective is to establish a transparent link , at an appropriate level of granularity, between financial investments and the tangible results they yield. Having such linkages will also allow CGIAR to better: 1. Ensure successful CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy implementation under different funding scenarios 2. Make"
"and the tangible results they yield. Having such linkages will also allow CGIAR to better: 1. Ensure successful CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy implementation under different funding scenarios 2. Make informed decisions about resource allocations that ensure portfolio diversity (e.g., across countries, thematic areas, partner -types, SDGs) and delivery against strategic objectives (e.g., during annual Pause and Reflect/ Adaptive Management) 3. Apply resource allocation strategies (e.g., invest less in many early-stage innovations, and invest more in fewer scaling-ready innovations (or vice-versa) based on risk appetite (e.g., incremental, radical, disruptive innovations), investment objectives, etc. 4. Manage investment overlap and gaps at the portfolio level (areas that are overfunded versus areas that are underfunded) 5. Identify opportunities for resource optimization and use efficiencies along the output - outcome-impact"
"investment overlap and gaps at the portfolio level (areas that are overfunded versus areas that are underfunded) 5. Identify opportunities for resource optimization and use efficiencies along the output - outcome-impact pathway (e.g., how funding sources and partner co-investment evolve). CGIAR started a linking investment to results pilot in 2023. The pilot focused on collecting optional data on funding allocation to innovation development (output-level) and innovation use (outcome-level). It provides a useful input into developing a fit for purpose solution. 8. Innovation Portfolio Management CGIAR has been recognized by funders and other organizations in the public sector to be ‘best- in-class’ when it comes to evidence -based innovation portfolio management approach ( Kohl, 2024). Since 2022, CGIAR employs a systematic approach to innovation portfolio management,"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 19 primarily through its Innovation Packages and Scaling Readiness (IPSR) approach (Schut et al., 2024). CGIAR Programs, Centres and projects manage – through partnerships – thousands of innovations along their impact pathways and innovation portfolio management helps CGIAR track, assess, and prioritize innovations based on their scalability and impact potential. Further mainstreaming the approach now allows CGIAR and partners to improve its: - Demand-Supply Alignment: Having an overview of which innovative solutions exist is a key starting point for responding to client demand and generate business intelligence where demand and supply do not match. - Performance and Results Management : Timely access to trustworthy innovation data supports decisions on how to efficiently advance innovation development and use along an impact pathway, and which innovations investments to stop or put on hold."
"Results Management : Timely access to trustworthy innovation data supports decisions on how to efficiently advance innovation development and use along an impact pathway, and which innovations investments to stop or put on hold. - Risk/Reward Balance: This systematic assessment at portfolio level ensures that resources are directed toward innovations with the highest potential for achieving responsible, large- scale impact. - Portfolio health: Ensures a portfolio that responds to immediate and future development challenges, and is diverse in terms of geographic focus, Impact Area focus, scaling - readiness, and innovation type (incremental, radical, disruptive). - Learning and Impact Culture: Grow capacity and culture that embraces a more realistic perspective research-to-impact pathways and learn from both success and failure. To further increase the value of CGIAR’s innovation portfolio management approach, there is need to focus on: - Continuity and"
"embraces a more realistic perspective research-to-impact pathways and learn from both success and failure. To further increase the value of CGIAR’s innovation portfolio management approach, there is need to focus on: - Continuity and mainstreaming: Streamline data collection and quality assurance approach of innovations across the portfolio (pooled + non-pooled) and ensure continuity in innovation data collection to infuse learning and monitor trends. - Interoperability: Improve linkages and alignments between PRMS and other internal project (e.g. TAAT’s e-catalogue) and CG centre innovation databases, as well as external partner innovation databases . Several key partners have expressed interest in collaborating on developing an open-source IPSR protocol to unlock sector-wide innovation management. - Governance and decision -making: Increase the relevance and value of innovation data in key CGIAR decision -making processes and i nstitute an advisory committee to engage key"
"protocol to unlock sector-wide innovation management. - Governance and decision -making: Increase the relevance and value of innovation data in key CGIAR decision -making processes and i nstitute an advisory committee to engage key internal and external stakeholders in IPSR/IPM steering/support and governance. - End-to-End Innovation Management : IPSR and innovation portfolio management as a docking point for various add-on optional modules (e.g. Gender Equality and Social Inclusion (GESI) and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and deeper institutional changes to increase its impact through e.g. adaptive management. Aspects of innovation portfolio management that concern demand-supply alignment, innovation bundling/ packaging, and scaling strategy development will be carried out in close collaboration with CGIAR Science Programs and Accelerators, notably the CGIAR Scaling for Impact Program. Mechanisms for alignment and collaboration will be operationalized during the inception phase of the Programs, early"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 20 9. Adaptive Management “Reflect” and Mid -Point Review Reflect Adaptive Management helps align CGIAR’s research and development efforts with evolving global challenges, opportunities and stakeholder needs. Over the past two years, the ""Reflect"" phase of our Report -Reflect-Replan cycle has provided critical space to make adaptive changes in response to strategic and operational challenges and opportunities. This process has led to intentionally managed changes to Initiative delivery and resource allocation, in line with approved lines and levels of accountability. The Reflect process will continue to play a key role in the 25 -30 Portfolio. We will deepen its integration with resource mobilization strategies as well as overall Business Intelligence. By"
process will continue to play a key role in the 25 -30 Portfolio. We will deepen its integration with resource mobilization strategies as well as overall Business Intelligence. By leveraging insights gained from the “Reflect” process - including stakeholder insights - CGIAR can more effectively align its elf with evolving global priorities and stakeholder needs. The scope of CGIAR’s Adaptive Management process will be expanded to include the (re-)alignment of w3 and bilateral projects to Science Programs and Accelerators. This would provide Centers and Programs/Accelerators the opportunity to adaptively manage alignment and data flow on an ongoing basis. To complement existing use of evidence in reflect we will explore mechanisms to more closely integrate ev idence from independent
"manage alignment and data flow on an ongoing basis. To complement existing use of evidence in reflect we will explore mechanisms to more closely integrate ev idence from independent and self -commissioned evaluations, including Management Responses to independent evaluations, into annual Program and Accelerator decision-making4. Mid-Point Review From January to June 2028, CGIAR will complete a comprehensive mid -point Review of the Portfolio. The review will involve all science programs and allow Centers and Science Leadership to review the portfolio's shape and the allocations awarded to Programs and Accelerators. The Global Science Team will lead this Review and implement a comprehensive exercise, reviewing challenges and opportunities, stakeholder inputs, independent advice, Center performance, ROI, and pre-established KPIs analysis. Annex"
"The Global Science Team will lead this Review and implement a comprehensive exercise, reviewing challenges and opportunities, stakeholder inputs, independent advice, Center performance, ROI, and pre-established KPIs analysis. Annex 1: Draft 2025-30 CGIAR Results Framework (Impact and Portfolio Outcome levels) During 2022-23 the Portfolio Performance Unit (PPU) commissioned studies and led consultations on reviewing the CGIAR Results Framework outcome and impact level indicators. During 2024 PPU collaborated with Science Group MELIA focal points and Impact Area Platform leaders to further consult within CGIAR to revise indicators where appropriate. The latest version of Portfolio outcome and impact indicators are included below. The revised Results 4 See Annex 4 Independent evaluation recommendations and management response actions relevant to the TRA"
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 21 Framework will be finalized in Q1-2 2025, building on inputs provided through MELIA-focused Funder, Center,"
"provided through MELIA-focused Funder, Center, Program/Accelerator and Independent Advisory engagement. Note: Indicators to be disaggregated by gender and youth where possible CGIAR Results"
"youth where possible CGIAR Results Framework – Impact level - Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods and Jobs Impact level - Gender Equality, Youth and Social"
"Gender Equality, Youth and Social Inclusion Impact level - Nutrition, Health and Food Security Impact level – Climate Adaptation and Mitigation"
CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June
June 2025 22 Impact level –
– Environmental Health and Biodiversity CGIAR
CGIAR Results Framework – Portfolio Outcome
"CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 23 Annex 2: ISDC feedback relating to pooled & non-pooled alignment5 This section provides a direct extract from the ISDC Feedback on CGIAR Portfolio Narrative 2025- 2030. Comments relating to the alignment of pooled and non -pooled have been extracted from the broader set of comments. They have not been edited to e.g. update Program and Accelerator nomenclature. • Articulation of how the Portfolio, including bilateral and W1 funding, will be bundled into Megaprograms is still lacking. Bilateral funding is restricted and is provided for a specific purpose and with specific intended impacts. This needs to be honored"
into Megaprograms is still lacking. Bilateral funding is restricted and is provided for a specific purpose and with specific intended impacts. This needs to be honored a nd the lack of flexibility in shifting those funds into other areas should be clearly acknowledged. • Alignment of the entire Portfolio with the CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy needs to be strong and explicit. How will management ensure that bilateral funding delivers against this Strategy? In addition: o What happens if a bilateral project is not strongly aligned with the Strategy and how will CGIAR ensure that opportunity costs are covered? o Will all bilateral projects
"if a bilateral project is not strongly aligned with the Strategy and how will CGIAR ensure that opportunity costs are covered? o Will all bilateral projects across all Centers be mapped to support the Portfolio? • A challenge that should be acknowledged is incorporating bilateral funding into Megaprograms. Each Megaprogram and Accelerator will be large scale and staff will be consumed by the implementation of contracted work. Trying to build Megaprogram linkages in parallel with bilateral funding should be additional, allowing sufficient effort dedicated to ensuring the prevention of silos within the new Portfolio. • Including bilateral funding into the organizational structure will be challenging."
"additional, allowing sufficient effort dedicated to ensuring the prevention of silos within the new Portfolio. • Including bilateral funding into the organizational structure will be challenging. Clearly articulating the KPIs for this task for 2025 would be helpful. • The efforts needed to transition to Megaprograms are considerable and may be underestimated given the funding integration foreseen. Integration of pooled and bilateral at the reporting stage, as indicated, might be too late. Avoiding the duplication and ensuring clear implementation will be key. How will duplication of outputs/outcomes be avoided with both pooled and bilateral funding towards shared results? 5 ISDC Feedback on CGIAR Portfolio Narrative"
CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 24 Annex 3: Initial Minimum Data Standard for Outputs and Outcomes Project output and outcome level results for Theory of Change/Planning/MELIA/Technical Reporting – these are a subset of the Program/Accelerator reporting standards that will be required of W3 and bilateral projects. • Generic o Result
"that will be required of W3 and bilateral projects. • Generic o Result description o Link to Program/Accelerator Theory of Change o Internal collaboration (link to Center, Program, Accelerator, Project) o Partner collaboration o Geographic focus (global/region/country/sub-national) o Evidence • Outcome o Policy Change ▪ Type ▪ Stage ▪ Owner o Innovation"
• Outcome o Policy Change ▪ Type ▪ Stage ▪ Owner o Innovation Use ▪ User type ▪ Number of people using (disaggregated by gender/youth) ▪ Other quantitative measure of use (e.g. # hectares) ▪ Estimated USD spend • Output o Capacity Development ▪ # people trained (gender disaggregated) ▪ Length of
Output o Capacity Development ▪ # people trained (gender disaggregated) ▪ Length of training ▪ Delivery method o Knowledge Product ▪ Product type including Peer Review Y/N ▪ Publication date ▪ Handle ▪ ISI ▪ Accessibility ▪ License ▪ AGROVOC o Innovation Development ▪ Innovation type ▪ Innovation readiness level ▪ Innovation
CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement 2025-30 June 2025 25 Annex 4: Independent evaluation recommendations and management response actions relevant to the TRA 25-30 This document contains a list of
25-30 This document contains a list of Independent evaluation recommendations (2021 -2024) and management response actions relevant to the TRA 25 -30. The list is extracted from the
-30. The list is extracted from the Management Response Actions Tracker. Annex 5: Relevant materials • CGIAR Research and Innovation Strategy 2022-30 • Performance and Results Management Framework
2022-30 • Performance and Results Management Framework 2022-30 • Technical Reporting Arrangement 22-24 • Evaluation Framework and Policy (2022) • Evaluability Assessment Guidelines • Quality of Science (QoS)
