"Innovation use How do I determine if I should report an innovation as an output (innovation development) or an outcome (innovation use)? Innovations can be reported at both the output and outcome levels. The development of an innovation (at various stages) is an output. The scaling, uptake and use of an innovation can be reported as outcome. In PRMS the results can be linked. What are the two ways to report innovation use results (outcomes)?"
"What are the two ways to report innovation use results (outcomes)? You can report innovation use results (outcomes) via a non-IPSR pathway or via the IPSR pathway. Non-IPSR pathway/reporting single innovation use: Any innovation use result can be reported using the non-IPSR pathway. In 2025 this pathway is 90% similar to how it was reported in 2024 (with a small change in specifying users and disaggregating youth, if applicable). The non-IPSR pathway: only records (i) innovation use type, (ii) innovation use quantity, and (iii) evidence to support innovation use reporting. IPSR pathway/reporting innovation bundle/package use: The IPSR pathway is the advanced way to report innovation use as part of an innovation bundle/ package. Only those innovations that have been reported and quality assured (at the output level) in the PRMS can be reported as part of an innovation package (outcome level). A data template is available on the P&R Hub here. The IPSR pathway supports innovation teams and partners to co-design innovation bundles and packages, assesses these packages to identify key bottlenecks/opportunities, and creates a starting point for developing scaling strategies."
"IPSR pathway/reporting innovation bundle/package use: The IPSR pathway is the advanced way to report innovation use as part of an innovation bundle/ package. Only those innovations that have been reported and quality assured (at the output level) in the PRMS can be reported as part of an innovation package (outcome level). A data template is available on the P&R Hub here. The IPSR pathway supports innovation teams and partners to co-design innovation bundles and packages, assesses these packages to identify key bottlenecks/opportunities, and creates a starting point for developing scaling strategies. How do I package an innovation using IPSR that has not yet been reported and quality assessed in the PRMS? Report this as innovation development at output level before the deadline for submission for the QA process. Once the QA process is finalized, this will enable innovation package reporting. To collect the required data, an IPSR workshop can be organized. Which results can be reported for innovation use/IPSR pathway?"
"Which results can be reported for innovation use/IPSR pathway? As part of the IPSR pathway, only innovations that have been reported and QA-ed at output level as innovation development can be selected for reporting of innovation use at outcome level. As part of the non-IPSR pathway, any innovation use can be reported. Why should I choose the IPSR pathway? Using the IPSR pathway allows you to demonstrate innovation/scaling synergies and collaboration with other CGIAR Initiatives and partners around innovation packages. It is recommended to report innovation use through the IPSR pathway as this supports the development of:"
"Using the IPSR pathway allows you to demonstrate innovation/scaling synergies and collaboration with other CGIAR Initiatives and partners around innovation packages. It is recommended to report innovation use through the IPSR pathway as this supports the development of: Scaling ambition (aligned with End of Initiative outcomes): an agreed-upon statement that includes information on where, with whom, for whom, and by when innovation scaling will contribute to outcomes and impacts. Innovation Package: enabling conditions that will support achieving the scaling ambition in a specific context. Scaling Readiness assessment: insight into how ready the innovation package is for scaling, what are the key bottlenecks and opportunities."
"Scaling Readiness assessment: insight into how ready the innovation package is for scaling, what are the key bottlenecks and opportunities. An initial light Scaling Strategy (a more mature, structured, Scaling Strategy is still coming) developed in multi-stakeholder discussions documenting the best ways forward for scaling an innovation. The IPSR pathway collects all data that is also collected through the non-IPSR pathway, but generates valuable learning for CGIAR and partners to develop innovation and scaling strategies. Furthermore, the IPSR pathway can be used to show progress towards impact at scale against a scaling ambition, rather than just providing current innovation use numbers. Using the IPSR pathway also gives you access to Scaling Challenges/ Funds. Is there guidance on adding complementary innovations/enablers/solutions as part of innovations use – IPSR pathway reporting? Is there guidance on adding complementary innovations/enablers/solutions as part of innovations use – IPSR pathway reporting? Yes, please see this guidance note, which provides details on adding complementary innovations/enablers/solutions."
