"Knowledge products Is it allowed to tag legacy publications (originating from Initiative outputs) only to the Initiatives acknowledged in the publication, or can they also be tagged to the successor Science Program(s) and/or Accelerator(s), even if these are not explicitly mentioned in the acknowledgements? Yes, during this transition period between research portfolios, dual tagging is allowed, both to the original Initiative (as noted in the acknowledgements) and to the corresponding new Science Program(s) and/or Accelerator(s), even if they are not explicitly mentioned in the publication. This applies when requested by the researcher and aims to ensure continuity and alignment with the evolving research structure. Who reviews and approves knowledge products that are not peer-reviewed journal articles, such as blog articles and working papers?"
"Who reviews and approves knowledge products that are not peer-reviewed journal articles, such as blog articles and working papers? Knowledge products other than peer-reviewed journal articles should be reviewed using processes developed by Centers or Programs/Accelerators. The quality assurance team assumes that all knowledge products have gone through a standard review process before being reported. Each Center knowledge management team can confirm Center guidelines for knowledge products. Please refer to the CGIAR Open and FAIR Data Assets Policy signed by all Centers. How can I make a CGSpace entry limited access? And what types of knowledge products would need restricted access in CGSpace?"
"How can I make a CGSpace entry limited access? And what types of knowledge products would need restricted access in CGSpace? A curator can limit access to a knowledge product when submitting the material to CGSpace. If the access status for an entry needs to be changed after submission, the curator will need to contact a CGSpace administrator (Abenet Yabowork or Alan Orth) to make that change. It is possible to limit a document to CGIAR users (via Active Directory login) as well as to limit access generally until a certain date. Published restricted articles can be entered into CGSpace. This is different from confidential evidence, where restrictions are imposed by a scientist on SharePoint or any other IT-recommended storage system at Center level. For confidential evidence, quality assurance assessors will require access to the confidential link. Who will be contacted for the QA of knowledge products?"
"Who will be contacted for the QA of knowledge products? If you tag a knowledge product with several Programs/Accelerators, that product will be represented equally among those tagged (e.g., in exports or the Results Dashboard). However, the first Program/Accelerator reporting a knowledge product will be responsible for addressing any comments from a quality assessor (e.g., a publication that was erroneously tagged as ISI by the library team in CGSpace can be questioned and the record should be updated in CGSpace during the assessment process). Should I report knowledge products in multiple languages separately? Knowledge products in multiple languages should not be reported separately, unless necessary to evidence the ToC (for example if pathways are differentiated for actors, or geography/geographic scope, requiring the output in different languages)."
"Knowledge products in multiple languages should not be reported separately, unless necessary to evidence the ToC (for example if pathways are differentiated for actors, or geography/geographic scope, requiring the output in different languages). How is the FAIR score for knowledge products calculated? FAIR (findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability) scores were introduced to align reporting with the CGIAR Open and FAIR Data Assets Policy. These scores are derived from existing CGSpace metadata to minimize data entry efforts, with equal weight assigned to each criterion. If you wish to enhance the FAIR score for a knowledge product, liaise with your Center’s knowledge management team to implement improvements. If you wish to enhance the FAIR score for a knowledge product, liaise with your Center’s knowledge management team to implement improvements."
