"Submitting evidence What is the minimum number of pieces of evidence I can report? Between 1 and 6 pieces are accepted by the system. Submit evidence in order of relevance, starting with the one most directly supportive of the result, and use the text box to indicate where the relevant information can be found within each source (e.g., page number, slide number, or table number). How and where do I submit evidence for results?"
"How and where do I submit evidence for results? Evidence for results can be submitted in the PRMS Reporting Tool. It is possible to submit a maximum of six pieces of evidence per result: However, this does not apply to: Knowledge products; they are stored on CGSpace and do not require additional evidence uploads in the PRMS. Capacity sharing for development results; these are exempt from multiple evidence uploads due to the associated time/resource burden and potential unresolved General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) issues. By submitting a capacity sharing for development result, it is understood that supporting evidence is available and can be provided upon request if a sub-sample is needed."
"Capacity sharing for development results; these are exempt from multiple evidence uploads due to the associated time/resource burden and potential unresolved General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) issues. By submitting a capacity sharing for development result, it is understood that supporting evidence is available and can be provided upon request if a sub-sample is needed. To avoid issues with evidence access during quality assessment, all evidence that is not publicly accessible must be uploaded to the PRMS. Additional information: Evidence links and file uploads are both possible in the PRMS."
"Evidence links and file uploads are both possible in the PRMS. All links provided should be publicly accessible. All CGIAR publications should be shared using a CGSpace link. Links to SharePoint, One Drive, Google Drive, DropBox, and other file storage platforms are not allowed. If you do not have a CGSpace or other public link available, use the “Upload file” option to upload your evidence to the PRMS repository. For confidential evidence, select “Upload file” and then “No” to indicate that it should not be public."
"For confidential evidence, select “Upload file” and then “No” to indicate that it should not be public. If you add an evidence link, or indicate that the file being uploaded to the PRMS is public: You confirm that the file is publicly accessible. You confirm that all intellectual property rights related to the file have been observed. This includes any rights relevant to the document owner’s Center affiliation and any specific rights tied to content within the document, such as images."
"You confirm that all intellectual property rights related to the file have been observed. This includes any rights relevant to the document owner’s Center affiliation and any specific rights tied to content within the document, such as images. You agree to the file link being displayed on the CGIAR Results Dashboard. If you indicate that the file being uploaded to the PRMS is NOT public: You confirm that the file should not be publicly accessible."
You confirm that the file should not be publicly accessible. The file will not be accessible through the CGIAR Results Dashboard. The file will be stored in the PRMS and will only be accessible by CGIAR staff (e.g. quality assurance assessors) with the repository link. Documents uploaded to the PRMS will be view-only and cannot be edited. Documents uploaded to the PRMS will be view-only and cannot be edited.
