"CGIAR Tech Reporting MELIA glossary v4.1 September 2025 This version of the MELIA glossary builds on the MELIA glossary v3 used for 2024 Technical Reporting, which incorporated the most recent approved changes to the CGIAR Results Framework. It serves as an interim solution to ensure consistent taxonomy across guidance documents, tools, and platforms for Technical Reporting, until the CGIAR taxonomy, being co-developed by Centers and the SO under the MELIAF Project, is finalized (expected mid-2026). Term | Definition | Definition | Definition"
"Term | Definition | Definition | Definition Accelerator | Accelerators will undertake strategic research in their topical areas and, through working with all other Programs, bolster CGIAR’s ability to reach and support targeted end-users while furthering collaboration, coherence, and integration across the entire Portfolio. | Accelerators will undertake strategic research in their topical areas and, through working with all other Programs, bolster CGIAR’s ability to reach and support targeted end-users while furthering collaboration, coherence, and integration across the entire Portfolio. | Accelerators will undertake strategic research in their topical areas and, through working with all other Programs, bolster CGIAR’s ability to reach and support targeted end-users while furthering collaboration, coherence, and integration across the entire Portfolio. Area of Work (AoW) | The term “Area of Work” is used to refer to the research components of a Program/Accelerator. An Area of Work should be designed as a connected set of activities and outputs which contribute to one or more high-level outputs. An Area of Work may include research activities and/or support activities. | The term “Area of Work” is used to refer to the research components of a Program/Accelerator. An Area of Work should be designed as a connected set of activities and outputs which contribute to one or more high-level outputs. An Area of Work may include research activities and/or support activities. | The term “Area of Work” is used to refer to the research components of a Program/Accelerator. An Area of Work should be designed as a connected set of activities and outputs which contribute to one or more high-level outputs. An Area of Work may include research activities and/or support activities. Capacity sharing for development | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis. | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis. | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis."
"Capacity sharing for development | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis. | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis. | Activities that develop the know-how and capacity to design, test, validate and use innovations. Examples: training-of-trainers programs at the farmer level; providing guidance on results-based management and monitoring, evaluation, and learning; training programs with public and private sector partners; educating PhD and MSc students; ongoing institutional support to national partners, particularly National Agricultural Research and Extension Systems (NARES); and strengthening government policy analysis. Contributor | Partners that made a significant contribution to the achievement of a result. This could take many forms and the threshold for inclusion is that the result would not have been achieved or reported in its current form without their support. | Partners that made a significant contribution to the achievement of a result. This could take many forms and the threshold for inclusion is that the result would not have been achieved or reported in its current form without their support. | Partners that made a significant contribution to the achievement of a result. This could take many forms and the threshold for inclusion is that the result would not have been achieved or reported in its current form without their support. Demand partner | Organizations or entities that have (expressed) an explicit or implicit demand for an innovation, change or who aspire to a specific goal or impact to which CGIAR can contribute. | Organizations or entities that have (expressed) an explicit or implicit demand for an innovation, change or who aspire to a specific goal or impact to which CGIAR can contribute. | Organizations or entities that have (expressed) an explicit or implicit demand for an innovation, change or who aspire to a specific goal or impact to which CGIAR can contribute. Genebanks | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing. | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing. | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing."
"Genebanks | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing. | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing. | CGIAR genebanks manage collections of more than 20 staple crops in 10 locations across 5 continents. The collections are made freely available upon request to thousands of users worldwide every year under the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, accounting for a large amount of the germplasm being exchanged under the multilateral system of access and benefit-sharing. Impact | A durable change in the condition of people and their environment brought about by a chain of events or change to which research, innovations and related activities have contributed. Impact may be positive or negative, direct or indirect, intended or unintended. Examples: Increased average household income in the target demographic; reduced greenhouse gas emissions from target landscapes; increased number of women farmers with secure rights to land. | A durable change in the condition of people and their environment brought about by a chain of events or change to which research, innovations and related activities have contributed. Impact may be positive or negative, direct or indirect, intended or unintended. Examples: Increased average household income in the target demographic; reduced greenhouse gas emissions from target landscapes; increased number of women farmers with secure rights to land. | A durable change in the condition of people and their environment brought about by a chain of events or change to which research, innovations and related activities have contributed. Impact may be positive or negative, direct or indirect, intended or unintended. Examples: Increased average household income in the target demographic; reduced greenhouse gas emissions from target landscapes; increased number of women farmers with secure rights to land. Impact Area | CGIAR is targeting multiple benefits across five Impact Areas. Working with others, for each of the Impact Areas, CGIAR contributes to collective global targets for the transformation of food, land, and water systems across local, regional, and global levels. CGIAR Impact Areas are: (I) Nutrition, Health and Food Security; (II) Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods and Jobs; (III) Gender Equality, Youth and Inclusion; (IV) Climate Adaptation and Mitigation; (V) Environmental Health and Biodiversity. | CGIAR is targeting multiple benefits across five Impact Areas. Working with others, for each of the Impact Areas, CGIAR contributes to collective global targets for the transformation of food, land, and water systems across local, regional, and global levels. CGIAR Impact Areas are: (I) Nutrition, Health and Food Security; (II) Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods and Jobs; (III) Gender Equality, Youth and Inclusion; (IV) Climate Adaptation and Mitigation; (V) Environmental Health and Biodiversity. | CGIAR is targeting multiple benefits across five Impact Areas. Working with others, for each of the Impact Areas, CGIAR contributes to collective global targets for the transformation of food, land, and water systems across local, regional, and global levels. CGIAR Impact Areas are: (I) Nutrition, Health and Food Security; (II) Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods and Jobs; (III) Gender Equality, Youth and Inclusion; (IV) Climate Adaptation and Mitigation; (V) Environmental Health and Biodiversity. Impact Area: Environmental Health and Biodiversity | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels. | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels. | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels."
"Impact Area: Environmental Health and Biodiversity | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels. | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels. | The collective global goals for the Environmental Health and Biodiversity Impact Area are: Stay within planetary and regional environmental boundaries: consumptive water use in food production of less than 2,500 km3 per year (with a focus on the most stressed basins); zero net deforestation; nitrogen application of 90 Tg per year (with a redistribution towards low-input farming systems) and increased use efficiency; and phosphorus application of 10 Tg per year. Maintain the genetic diversity of seed varieties, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed genebanks at the national, regional, and international levels. Impact Area: Climate Adaptation and Mitigation | The collective global goals for the Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Impact Area are: Implement all National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) and Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to the Paris Agreement. Equip 500 million small-scale producers to be more resilient to climate shocks, with climate adaptation solutions available through national innovation systems. Turn agriculture and forest systems into a net sink for carbon by 2050, with emissions from agriculture decreasing by 1 Gt per year by 2030 and reaching a floor of 5 Gt per year by 2050. | The collective global goals for the Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Impact Area are: Implement all National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) and Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to the Paris Agreement. Equip 500 million small-scale producers to be more resilient to climate shocks, with climate adaptation solutions available through national innovation systems. Turn agriculture and forest systems into a net sink for carbon by 2050, with emissions from agriculture decreasing by 1 Gt per year by 2030 and reaching a floor of 5 Gt per year by 2050. | The collective global goals for the Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Impact Area are: Implement all National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) and Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to the Paris Agreement. Equip 500 million small-scale producers to be more resilient to climate shocks, with climate adaptation solutions available through national innovation systems. Turn agriculture and forest systems into a net sink for carbon by 2050, with emissions from agriculture decreasing by 1 Gt per year by 2030 and reaching a floor of 5 Gt per year by 2050. Impact Area: Gender Equality, Youth and Social Inclusion | The collective global goals for the Gender Equality, Youth, and Social Inclusion Impact Area are: Close the gender gap in rights to economic resources, access to ownership and control over land and natural resources for over 500 million women who work in food, land and water systems. Offer rewardable opportunities to 267 million young people who are not in employment, education or training. | The collective global goals for the Gender Equality, Youth, and Social Inclusion Impact Area are: Close the gender gap in rights to economic resources, access to ownership and control over land and natural resources for over 500 million women who work in food, land and water systems. Offer rewardable opportunities to 267 million young people who are not in employment, education or training. | The collective global goals for the Gender Equality, Youth, and Social Inclusion Impact Area are: Close the gender gap in rights to economic resources, access to ownership and control over land and natural resources for over 500 million women who work in food, land and water systems. Offer rewardable opportunities to 267 million young people who are not in employment, education or training. Impact Area: Nutrition, Health and Food Security | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third. | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third. | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third."
"Impact Area: Nutrition, Health and Food Security | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third. | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third. | The collective global goals for the Nutrition, Health, and Food Security Impact Area are: End hunger for all and enable affordable, healthy diets for the 3 billion people who do not currently have access to safe and nutritious food. Reduce cases of foodborne illness (600 million annually) and zoonotic disease (1 billion annually) by one third. Impact Area: Poverty reduction, Livelihoods and Jobs | The collective global goals for the Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods, and Jobs Impact Area are: Lift at least 500 million people living in rural areas above the extreme poverty line of USD1.90 per day (2011 PPP). Reduce by at least half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions. | The collective global goals for the Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods, and Jobs Impact Area are: Lift at least 500 million people living in rural areas above the extreme poverty line of USD1.90 per day (2011 PPP). Reduce by at least half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions. | The collective global goals for the Poverty Reduction, Livelihoods, and Jobs Impact Area are: Lift at least 500 million people living in rural areas above the extreme poverty line of USD1.90 per day (2011 PPP). Reduce by at least half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions. Impact Area Relevance Score | Reported results (outputs, outcomes, or impacts) may be scored as relevant to each Impact Area. Three options are possible: 0 = Not targeted: The result does not target any of the objectives related to this Impact Area. 1 = Significant: The result makes important and deliberate contributions to the objectives of this Impact Area, but they are not the principal reason for undertaking the activity. 2 = Principal: Contributions to progress in this Impact Area is the main objective of the result and is fundamental in its design. The activity would not have been undertaken without this objective. These scores are drawn from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC). See Rio markers for climate and gender equality policy marker. | Reported results (outputs, outcomes, or impacts) may be scored as relevant to each Impact Area. Three options are possible: 0 = Not targeted: The result does not target any of the objectives related to this Impact Area. 1 = Significant: The result makes important and deliberate contributions to the objectives of this Impact Area, but they are not the principal reason for undertaking the activity. 2 = Principal: Contributions to progress in this Impact Area is the main objective of the result and is fundamental in its design. The activity would not have been undertaken without this objective. These scores are drawn from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC). See Rio markers for climate and gender equality policy marker. | Reported results (outputs, outcomes, or impacts) may be scored as relevant to each Impact Area. Three options are possible: 0 = Not targeted: The result does not target any of the objectives related to this Impact Area. 1 = Significant: The result makes important and deliberate contributions to the objectives of this Impact Area, but they are not the principal reason for undertaking the activity. 2 = Principal: Contributions to progress in this Impact Area is the main objective of the result and is fundamental in its design. The activity would not have been undertaken without this objective. These scores are drawn from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC). See Rio markers for climate and gender equality policy marker. Indicator | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts. | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts. | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts."
"Indicator | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts. | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts. | A standardized measurement that provides information on progress or change towards a specific objective or issue. These may be used to trace and compare results, monitor trends, identify areas for action across impact pathways over time and across contexts. Innovation | New, improved or adapted outputs or groups of outputs such as products, technologies, services, organizational and institutional arrangements with high potential to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. Examples: innovations can be of technological or non-technological nature and can include varieties/breeds or groups of varieties/breeds; crop or animal management practices; digital extension/decision support tools; partnership or business models; policies or other types of institutional arrangements; subsidy or certification schemes; capacity development programs; disease detection/ early warning systems; pro-poor credit arrangements. | New, improved or adapted outputs or groups of outputs such as products, technologies, services, organizational and institutional arrangements with high potential to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. Examples: innovations can be of technological or non-technological nature and can include varieties/breeds or groups of varieties/breeds; crop or animal management practices; digital extension/decision support tools; partnership or business models; policies or other types of institutional arrangements; subsidy or certification schemes; capacity development programs; disease detection/ early warning systems; pro-poor credit arrangements. | New, improved or adapted outputs or groups of outputs such as products, technologies, services, organizational and institutional arrangements with high potential to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. Examples: innovations can be of technological or non-technological nature and can include varieties/breeds or groups of varieties/breeds; crop or animal management practices; digital extension/decision support tools; partnership or business models; policies or other types of institutional arrangements; subsidy or certification schemes; capacity development programs; disease detection/ early warning systems; pro-poor credit arrangements. Innovation development | The process of developing innovations from an idea to a proven product, technology, service or arrangement that is validated for its ability to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. The process often includes basic research, innovation design, and improving innovations based on testing under (semi-)controlled and uncontrolled conditions. Progress in innovation development is measured in an evidence-based way along the 0-9 levels of innovation readiness. | The process of developing innovations from an idea to a proven product, technology, service or arrangement that is validated for its ability to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. The process often includes basic research, innovation design, and improving innovations based on testing under (semi-)controlled and uncontrolled conditions. Progress in innovation development is measured in an evidence-based way along the 0-9 levels of innovation readiness. | The process of developing innovations from an idea to a proven product, technology, service or arrangement that is validated for its ability to contribute to positive impacts when used at scale. The process often includes basic research, innovation design, and improving innovations based on testing under (semi-)controlled and uncontrolled conditions. Progress in innovation development is measured in an evidence-based way along the 0-9 levels of innovation readiness. Innovation package | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach. | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach. | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach."
"Innovation package | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach. | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach. | Combinations of interrelated innovations and enabling conditions that, together, can lead to transformation and impact at scale in the CGIAR research delivery hierarchy. They are context, outcome, and use-group specific and their ability to contribute to outcomes and impact can change over time. Innovation Packages is a key concept of the Scaling Readiness approach. Innovation partner | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates and co-invests with to develop, improve the readiness of, or apply innovations to contribute to impact at scale. | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates and co-invests with to develop, improve the readiness of, or apply innovations to contribute to impact at scale. | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates and co-invests with to develop, improve the readiness of, or apply innovations to contribute to impact at scale. Innovation readiness | A metric used to assess the maturity of an innovation, with a scale ranging from the idea (lowest level) to validated under uncontrolled conditions (highest level). Examples: Innovation Readiness is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. Innovations often go through different stages of readiness and can start as an idea that is turned into a prototype, working model or application that needs to be tested and validated under controlled and uncontrolled conditions. The readiness of an innovation is often context-, and outcome specific, and can change over time. Innovation Readiness is assessed using evidence and prevents the scaling of innovations that are not proven to work. | A metric used to assess the maturity of an innovation, with a scale ranging from the idea (lowest level) to validated under uncontrolled conditions (highest level). Examples: Innovation Readiness is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. Innovations often go through different stages of readiness and can start as an idea that is turned into a prototype, working model or application that needs to be tested and validated under controlled and uncontrolled conditions. The readiness of an innovation is often context-, and outcome specific, and can change over time. Innovation Readiness is assessed using evidence and prevents the scaling of innovations that are not proven to work. | A metric used to assess the maturity of an innovation, with a scale ranging from the idea (lowest level) to validated under uncontrolled conditions (highest level). Examples: Innovation Readiness is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. Innovations often go through different stages of readiness and can start as an idea that is turned into a prototype, working model or application that needs to be tested and validated under controlled and uncontrolled conditions. The readiness of an innovation is often context-, and outcome specific, and can change over time. Innovation Readiness is assessed using evidence and prevents the scaling of innovations that are not proven to work. Innovation use | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use. | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use. | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use."
"Innovation use | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use. | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use. | A metric used to assess the extent to which an innovation is already being used, by which type of users and under which conditions, with a scale ranging from no use (lowest level) to common use (highest level). Examples: innovation use is a key metric in the Scaling Readiness approach. An innovation that is only used by the project, design or intervention team or its direct partners will score low in innovation use. Innovations that are commonly used by anticipated end-users will score high in innovation use. Users that are directly incentivized by a project or intervention to use an innovation are considered project team or direct partners which will score as low innovation use. IPSR Pathway to report innovation use (outcome) | An advanced way to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale using the Innovation Packages and Scaling Readiness approach. This pathway supports CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those Reporting current use of the core innovation (evidence-based) | An advanced way to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale using the Innovation Packages and Scaling Readiness approach. This pathway supports CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those Reporting current use of the core innovation (evidence-based) | An advanced way to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale using the Innovation Packages and Scaling Readiness approach. This pathway supports CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those Reporting current use of the core innovation (evidence-based) Non-IPSR pathway to report innovation use (outcome) | Supports reporting the current use of a core innovation (evidence-based) but does not enable Programs/Accelerators/Projects to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale. Also does not support CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those | Supports reporting the current use of a core innovation (evidence-based) but does not enable Programs/Accelerators/Projects to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale. Also does not support CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those | Supports reporting the current use of a core innovation (evidence-based) but does not enable Programs/Accelerators/Projects to report progress in innovation use towards impact at scale. Also does not support CGIAR and partner teams in: Co-creating a scaling ambition for innovations with scaling partners Designing a context-specific innovation package (enabling conditions for scaling) with partners and experts Assessing the innovation package for its scaling readiness (evidence-based) Identify bottlenecks for scaling and partner discussions on how to overcome those Key result story | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story. | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story. | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story."
"Key result story | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story. | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story. | In-depth accounts of results that provide insight into CGIAR contribution to outcomes and/or impact. Each year, Programs and Accelerators are asked to report at least one key result story. Knowledge products | Knowledge products are intellectual assets generated from research and development activities such as articles, briefs, reports, extension and training content, databases, software, and multimedia elements that contribute to behavioural changes in particular actors. | Knowledge products are intellectual assets generated from research and development activities such as articles, briefs, reports, extension and training content, databases, software, and multimedia elements that contribute to behavioural changes in particular actors. | Knowledge products are intellectual assets generated from research and development activities such as articles, briefs, reports, extension and training content, databases, software, and multimedia elements that contribute to behavioural changes in particular actors. Outcome | A change in knowledge, attitudes, skills, and/or relationships (KASR), which manifests as a change in behaviour within the spheres of influence and interest, that results in whole or in part from the research and its outputs. Examples: use of a new technology (including outputs like a seed variety) by farmers; policy actors using research-based knowledge to inform policy decisions; participants in a CGIAR-supported process agree to new germplasm conservation and exchange protocols; researchers use CGIAR generated methods and/or databases. Key outcomes: Who will do what differently as a result of the Program/Accelerator/Project. | A change in knowledge, attitudes, skills, and/or relationships (KASR), which manifests as a change in behaviour within the spheres of influence and interest, that results in whole or in part from the research and its outputs. Examples: use of a new technology (including outputs like a seed variety) by farmers; policy actors using research-based knowledge to inform policy decisions; participants in a CGIAR-supported process agree to new germplasm conservation and exchange protocols; researchers use CGIAR generated methods and/or databases. Key outcomes: Who will do what differently as a result of the Program/Accelerator/Project. | A change in knowledge, attitudes, skills, and/or relationships (KASR), which manifests as a change in behaviour within the spheres of influence and interest, that results in whole or in part from the research and its outputs. Examples: use of a new technology (including outputs like a seed variety) by farmers; policy actors using research-based knowledge to inform policy decisions; participants in a CGIAR-supported process agree to new germplasm conservation and exchange protocols; researchers use CGIAR generated methods and/or databases. Key outcomes: Who will do what differently as a result of the Program/Accelerator/Project. Intermediate outcome | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different. | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different. | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different."
"Intermediate outcome | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different. | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different. | Intermediate outcomes are necessary steps towards achieving the 2030 outcomes. Intermediate outcomes will lead to the 2030 outcomes, although the actors and units of measure may be different. 2030 outcome | 2030 outcomes are the final, highest-level outcomes to be achieved by the end of 2030 by the Programs/Accelerators/Projects. It is expected that these 2030 outcomes would lead to measurable impacts. | 2030 outcomes are the final, highest-level outcomes to be achieved by the end of 2030 by the Programs/Accelerators/Projects. It is expected that these 2030 outcomes would lead to measurable impacts. | 2030 outcomes are the final, highest-level outcomes to be achieved by the end of 2030 by the Programs/Accelerators/Projects. It is expected that these 2030 outcomes would lead to measurable impacts. Output | Knowledge, technical or institutional advancement produced by CGIAR research, engagement and/or capacity development activities. Examples: new research methods, policy analyses, gene maps, new crop varieties and breeds, institutional innovations or other products of research work, partnerships because of a signed memorandum of understanding. | Knowledge, technical or institutional advancement produced by CGIAR research, engagement and/or capacity development activities. Examples: new research methods, policy analyses, gene maps, new crop varieties and breeds, institutional innovations or other products of research work, partnerships because of a signed memorandum of understanding. | Knowledge, technical or institutional advancement produced by CGIAR research, engagement and/or capacity development activities. Examples: new research methods, policy analyses, gene maps, new crop varieties and breeds, institutional innovations or other products of research work, partnerships because of a signed memorandum of understanding. High-level output | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on). | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on). | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on)."
"High-level output | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on). | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on). | High-level outputs are aggregated clusters of outputs which are linked by the intention to achieve a specific outcome. The high-level outputs should be relatively downstream – i.e. ready to be used by next/end users – and would often be composed of various different types of outputs (e.g. knowledge products, innovations, capacity sharing activities and so on). Partner | Organizations or individual stakeholders that CGIAR collaborates with to achieve its goals for which proof exists, i.e., memorandum of understanding, joint code of practice, a contract under a joint proposal. Partners can also be beneficiaries of CGIAR’s interventions. Examples: demand partner, innovation partner and scaling partner. | Organizations or individual stakeholders that CGIAR collaborates with to achieve its goals for which proof exists, i.e., memorandum of understanding, joint code of practice, a contract under a joint proposal. Partners can also be beneficiaries of CGIAR’s interventions. Examples: demand partner, innovation partner and scaling partner. | Organizations or individual stakeholders that CGIAR collaborates with to achieve its goals for which proof exists, i.e., memorandum of understanding, joint code of practice, a contract under a joint proposal. Partners can also be beneficiaries of CGIAR’s interventions. Examples: demand partner, innovation partner and scaling partner. Partner typology (CGIAR) | CGIAR uses a partner typology to define partner types. Definitions are presented below. | CGIAR uses a partner typology to define partner types. Definitions are presented below. | CGIAR uses a partner typology to define partner types. Definitions are presented below. Partner typology (CGIAR) | CGIAR type | CGIAR type definition"
"Partner typology (CGIAR) | CGIAR type | CGIAR type definition Partner typology (CGIAR) | Non-governmental organization (NGO) | Non-governmental organization General (NGO-General) | A non-governmental organization (NGO) is an organization generally formed independently of the government. They are typically non-profit entities, and many are active in humanitarianism or the social sciences; NGOs can also include clubs and associations that provide services to their members and others. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Non-governmental organization (NGO) | Non-governmental organization Farmer (NGO-Farmer) | Farmers' associations are generally collective forms encompassing all types of unions of farmers, from the village to national level, with the aim of increasing benefits for individual member farmers. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Research organizations and universities | Research organizations | A research institute, research center, or research organization is an establishment founded for conducting research. Research institutes may specialize in basic research or may be oriented to applied research. Although the term often implies natural science research, there are also many research institutes in the social sciences, especially for sociological and historical research purposes. At the international level, research institutions comprise CGIAR Centers."
"Partner typology (CGIAR) | Research organizations and universities | Research organizations | A research institute, research center, or research organization is an establishment founded for conducting research. Research institutes may specialize in basic research or may be oriented to applied research. Although the term often implies natural science research, there are also many research institutes in the social sciences, especially for sociological and historical research purposes. At the international level, research institutions comprise CGIAR Centers. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Research organizations and universities | Universities | It is an institution of higher (or tertiary) education and research which awards academic degrees in several academic disciplines. Universities typically offer both undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Research organizations and universities | National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) | National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) are usually government-affiliated entities that support and facilitate individuals engaged in agricultural production. They help address problems and provide information, skills, and technologies to improve livelihoods and well-being. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Organization (other than financial or research) | International organization | An international organization (also known as an intergovernmental organization or an international institution) is characterized by a stable set of norms and rules designed to govern and regulate the behaviour of states and other actors within the international system. These organizations may be established by a treaty or be governed by international law and possess their own legal personality, such as the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and NATO. International organizations are primarily composed of member states but may also include other entities. Additionally, certain entities (including states) may hold observer status."
"Partner typology (CGIAR) | Organization (other than financial or research) | International organization | An international organization (also known as an intergovernmental organization or an international institution) is characterized by a stable set of norms and rules designed to govern and regulate the behaviour of states and other actors within the international system. These organizations may be established by a treaty or be governed by international law and possess their own legal personality, such as the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and NATO. International organizations are primarily composed of member states but may also include other entities. Additionally, certain entities (including states) may hold observer status. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Government | Government | In this context, “government” primarily refers to the governments receiving aid. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Financial institution | Financial institution | A financial institution, or banking institution, is a business entity that provides intermediary services for different types of financial transactions. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Financial institution | International financial institution | An international financial institution (IFI) is a financial institution established (or chartered) by more than one country, thus subject to international law."
"Partner typology (CGIAR) | Financial institution | International financial institution | An international financial institution (IFI) is a financial institution established (or chartered) by more than one country, thus subject to international law. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Financial institution | Bilateral development agencies | Bilateral development agencies are financial institutions that support the economic and social development of aid-recipient countries and receive funding from governments in their home countries. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Private company (other than financial) | Private company (other than financial) | A private company is an entity held under private ownership. While private companies may issue stock and have shareholders, their shares are not traded on public exchanges. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Public-private partnerships | Public-private partnerships | Public-private partnerships involve collaboration between a government agency and a private-sector company that can be used to finance, build, and operate projects, such as public transportation networks, parks, and convention centers. Financing a project through a public-private partnership can enable earlier completion of a project or make it feasible in the first place."
"Partner typology (CGIAR) | Public-private partnerships | Public-private partnerships | Public-private partnerships involve collaboration between a government agency and a private-sector company that can be used to finance, build, and operate projects, such as public transportation networks, parks, and convention centers. Financing a project through a public-private partnership can enable earlier completion of a project or make it feasible in the first place. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Foundation | Foundation | Foundations are entities that support charitable activities by making grants to other organizations, institutions or to individuals for various purposes such as scientific, educational, cultural, religious, or other charitable endeavors. While foundations are often primarily engaged in grant-making activities, some may engage in their own direct charitable activities or programs. Note: not all organizations with the name foundation are foundations. Partner typology (CGIAR) | Other | Other | Partners whose definition does not fall under any of the other identified categories. Partnership | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners. | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners. | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners."
"Partnership | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners. | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners. | Proven relationships between CGIAR’s entities and/or partners, to jointly undertake activities that contribute to a common set of objectives or a common goal along the lines of each partner’s mandate. A partnership can include multiple partners. Proof of partnerships should exist in the form of any signed document explaining the common set of objectives and/or goals for which the partnership exists. See also: Partners. Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF) | The Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF) describes the processes, systems and measures for managing CGIAR’s performance and results to support delivery of the CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy. It helps teams to monitor, learn and adapt their Science Program/Accelerator over time to best navigate towards impact, support leaders to allocate resources towards workstreams with growing potential, and help CGIAR communicate the full spectrum of its impact to partners, funders and beneficiaries. | The Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF) describes the processes, systems and measures for managing CGIAR’s performance and results to support delivery of the CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy. It helps teams to monitor, learn and adapt their Science Program/Accelerator over time to best navigate towards impact, support leaders to allocate resources towards workstreams with growing potential, and help CGIAR communicate the full spectrum of its impact to partners, funders and beneficiaries. | The Performance and Results Management Framework (PRMF) describes the processes, systems and measures for managing CGIAR’s performance and results to support delivery of the CGIAR 2030 Research and Innovation Strategy. It helps teams to monitor, learn and adapt their Science Program/Accelerator over time to best navigate towards impact, support leaders to allocate resources towards workstreams with growing potential, and help CGIAR communicate the full spectrum of its impact to partners, funders and beneficiaries. Performance and Results Management System (PRMS) | The Performance and Results Management System (PRMS) underpins the PRMF, encompassing planning, monitoring, and reporting. It provides robust information to support informed decision-making, enabling real-time data collection and the day-to-day management of the Portfolio and Science Programs/Accelerators. | The Performance and Results Management System (PRMS) underpins the PRMF, encompassing planning, monitoring, and reporting. It provides robust information to support informed decision-making, enabling real-time data collection and the day-to-day management of the Portfolio and Science Programs/Accelerators. | The Performance and Results Management System (PRMS) underpins the PRMF, encompassing planning, monitoring, and reporting. It provides robust information to support informed decision-making, enabling real-time data collection and the day-to-day management of the Portfolio and Science Programs/Accelerators. Policy change | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research. | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research. | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research."
"Policy change | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research. | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research. | Policies, strategies, legal instruments, programs, budgets, or investments at different scales (local to global) that have been modified in design or implementation, with evidence that the change was informed by CGIAR research. Portfolio | The CGIAR System Framework approved by the System’s Funders and Centers in June 2016, and then amended in October 2024, defines “CGIAR Portfolio” as the research programs and/or platforms carried out by the Centers and the CGIAR System Partners in support of the CGIAR Strategy and Results Framework and which are supported by (i) the CGIAR Trust Fund and/or (ii) bilateral sources contractually aligned to such programs and/or platforms. | The CGIAR System Framework approved by the System’s Funders and Centers in June 2016, and then amended in October 2024, defines “CGIAR Portfolio” as the research programs and/or platforms carried out by the Centers and the CGIAR System Partners in support of the CGIAR Strategy and Results Framework and which are supported by (i) the CGIAR Trust Fund and/or (ii) bilateral sources contractually aligned to such programs and/or platforms. | The CGIAR System Framework approved by the System’s Funders and Centers in June 2016, and then amended in October 2024, defines “CGIAR Portfolio” as the research programs and/or platforms carried out by the Centers and the CGIAR System Partners in support of the CGIAR Strategy and Results Framework and which are supported by (i) the CGIAR Trust Fund and/or (ii) bilateral sources contractually aligned to such programs and/or platforms. Program | CGIAR Programs are the main vehicle for delivery of research and innovation by CGIAR from 2025 to 2030. Programs serve as entry points to describe CGIAR’s offer on a key topic, elevating CGIAR’s visibility in global agendas and facilitating the continuation and formation of inclusive alliances and partnerships. They state quantitatively what impacts and outcomes they intend to achieve, along a theory of change. They come with evaluable results frameworks and clear reporting of results against investment. Bilateral and window 3 projects are aligned to Programs and Accelerators and their results are reported as part of Program and Accelerator reporting. | CGIAR Programs are the main vehicle for delivery of research and innovation by CGIAR from 2025 to 2030. Programs serve as entry points to describe CGIAR’s offer on a key topic, elevating CGIAR’s visibility in global agendas and facilitating the continuation and formation of inclusive alliances and partnerships. They state quantitatively what impacts and outcomes they intend to achieve, along a theory of change. They come with evaluable results frameworks and clear reporting of results against investment. Bilateral and window 3 projects are aligned to Programs and Accelerators and their results are reported as part of Program and Accelerator reporting. | CGIAR Programs are the main vehicle for delivery of research and innovation by CGIAR from 2025 to 2030. Programs serve as entry points to describe CGIAR’s offer on a key topic, elevating CGIAR’s visibility in global agendas and facilitating the continuation and formation of inclusive alliances and partnerships. They state quantitatively what impacts and outcomes they intend to achieve, along a theory of change. They come with evaluable results frameworks and clear reporting of results against investment. Bilateral and window 3 projects are aligned to Programs and Accelerators and their results are reported as part of Program and Accelerator reporting. Result | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact. | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact. | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact."
"Result | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact. | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact. | The product of an activity by CGIAR staff or due in part to CGIAR staff, described as an output, outcome or impact. Scaling partner | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates with to advance the uptake and use of innovations at scale. | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates with to advance the uptake and use of innovations at scale. | Organizations or entities that CGIAR collaborates with to advance the uptake and use of innovations at scale. Scaling Readiness | A metric that combines single or average innovation readiness and innovation use scores at innovation package or portfolio level. See also: Innovation readiness and innovation use. More information at www.scalingreadiness.org. | A metric that combines single or average innovation readiness and innovation use scores at innovation package or portfolio level. See also: Innovation readiness and innovation use. More information at www.scalingreadiness.org. | A metric that combines single or average innovation readiness and innovation use scores at innovation package or portfolio level. See also: Innovation readiness and innovation use. More information at www.scalingreadiness.org. Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030. | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030. | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030."
"Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030. | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030. | Seventeen (17) internationally accepted, publicly broadcast objectives related to achieving sustainable development adopted in 2015 to 2030. Target | Targets are specific, measurable goals that guide actions and enable progress to be assessed against desired results. In the 2025-2030 Portfolio, target-setting and reporting occur at three levels: Program/Accelerator-level outputs and outcomes – tangible deliverables and results within individual Programs/Accelerators. Portfolio-level geographic and thematic outcomes – broader achievements across locations and thematic areas. Portfolio-level Impact Area contributions – aggregated results contributing to CGIAR’s Impact Areas. Baseline requirements and measurement approaches vary by level and type of target. | Targets are specific, measurable goals that guide actions and enable progress to be assessed against desired results. In the 2025-2030 Portfolio, target-setting and reporting occur at three levels: Program/Accelerator-level outputs and outcomes – tangible deliverables and results within individual Programs/Accelerators. Portfolio-level geographic and thematic outcomes – broader achievements across locations and thematic areas. Portfolio-level Impact Area contributions – aggregated results contributing to CGIAR’s Impact Areas. Baseline requirements and measurement approaches vary by level and type of target. | Targets are specific, measurable goals that guide actions and enable progress to be assessed against desired results. In the 2025-2030 Portfolio, target-setting and reporting occur at three levels: Program/Accelerator-level outputs and outcomes – tangible deliverables and results within individual Programs/Accelerators. Portfolio-level geographic and thematic outcomes – broader achievements across locations and thematic areas. Portfolio-level Impact Area contributions – aggregated results contributing to CGIAR’s Impact Areas. Baseline requirements and measurement approaches vary by level and type of target. Technical Reporting Arrangement (TRA) 2025-2030 | The CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement (TRA 25-30) fulfills the System-level programmatic reporting requirements set out in the Standard Provisions annexed to the Funding Agreement or Arrangement signed between each Funder and the System Organization and its purpose is to set out the Technical Reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. The TRA 25-30 provides the operational and enabling basis to plan, monitor, learn and report on the 25-30 Portfolio and it is designed to progressively enable Programs and Accelerators, Centers and their research teams to report on the pooled, bilaterally and W3-funded components of the 2025-30 Portfolio in an integrated and aligned way, without increasing reporting burdens of Centers and Scientists. | The CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement (TRA 25-30) fulfills the System-level programmatic reporting requirements set out in the Standard Provisions annexed to the Funding Agreement or Arrangement signed between each Funder and the System Organization and its purpose is to set out the Technical Reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. The TRA 25-30 provides the operational and enabling basis to plan, monitor, learn and report on the 25-30 Portfolio and it is designed to progressively enable Programs and Accelerators, Centers and their research teams to report on the pooled, bilaterally and W3-funded components of the 2025-30 Portfolio in an integrated and aligned way, without increasing reporting burdens of Centers and Scientists. | The CGIAR Technical Reporting Arrangement (TRA 25-30) fulfills the System-level programmatic reporting requirements set out in the Standard Provisions annexed to the Funding Agreement or Arrangement signed between each Funder and the System Organization and its purpose is to set out the Technical Reporting requirements that apply to the CGIAR Portfolio during the period 2025-2030. The TRA 25-30 provides the operational and enabling basis to plan, monitor, learn and report on the 25-30 Portfolio and it is designed to progressively enable Programs and Accelerators, Centers and their research teams to report on the pooled, bilaterally and W3-funded components of the 2025-30 Portfolio in an integrated and aligned way, without increasing reporting burdens of Centers and Scientists. Theory of change (ToC) | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. Theory of change (ToC) | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. | An explicit, testable model of how and why social change is expected to happen along an impact pathway in a development context. A basic research-for-development theory of change (ToC) identifies the context and key actors in a project, program or initiative and specifies the causal pathways and mechanisms by which the research aims to contribute to outcomes and impacts. This model can be used for: (i) designing and planning project logic including assumptions; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of processes and results including risk identification and mitigation; (iii) testing assumptions and identifying lessons learned, reflection for accountability and results-based management, and using findings for evidence-based decision-making for learning and accountability. Quality assurance | Quality assurance (QA) is a process to monitor, validate and improve the quality of data based on established procedures and guidelines. Within CGIAR’s overall Technical Reporting process, the QA process includes: • Evaluating selected reported data to ensure their accuracy and alignment with the evidence presented based on agreed-upon criteria; • Providing guidance to improve the data entry process in the pre-QA phase of the Technical Reporting process; • Continuously improving CGIAR’s QA process to increase its effectiveness, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. | Quality assurance (QA) is a process to monitor, validate and improve the quality of data based on established procedures and guidelines. Within CGIAR’s overall Technical Reporting process, the QA process includes: • Evaluating selected reported data to ensure their accuracy and alignment with the evidence presented based on agreed-upon criteria; • Providing guidance to improve the data entry process in the pre-QA phase of the Technical Reporting process; • Continuously improving CGIAR’s QA process to increase its effectiveness, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. | Quality assurance (QA) is a process to monitor, validate and improve the quality of data based on established procedures and guidelines. Within CGIAR’s overall Technical Reporting process, the QA process includes: • Evaluating selected reported data to ensure their accuracy and alignment with the evidence presented based on agreed-upon criteria; • Providing guidance to improve the data entry process in the pre-QA phase of the Technical Reporting process; • Continuously improving CGIAR’s QA process to increase its effectiveness, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness."
